Okay.
So in this lesson, we're going to do a small refactor for our job listings test suite.
We're going to create a new factory function to create a sample mock store object.
It's going to work very similarly to how our create root factory function works.
Our create root function creates a sample root mock object, which we then provide to our create config
function so that that object can represent the dollar sign root property in our component.
And the idea behind a factory function like this is if a component simply wants some kind of root object
to exist and it doesn't care about its details, it can invoke create root and it can provide no argument
because query params right here, it will fall back to an empty object and then it's just going to get
the sample root object with a query property, a page property, etc. However, if a test does care
about the query params, it can provide its own object here and customize what those nested properties
are.
So if I scroll down here, we can see here is a test that customizes how create root works and provide
some sample params.
And if I scroll further down here we'll see a different use of the query params etc. So we kind of have
a fallback factory object to go back to, but we can also allow each test to customize it.
If it cares about a specific property, we're going to do the exact same approach for our store creation
and we're going to see how that can reduce some of the lines in our tests.
So right below, Create Root, I'm going to create a new arrow function called Create Store.
And create store is going to accept a single parameter and I'm going to call it config and I'm going
to set config to have a default argument of an empty JavaScript object.
And then from Create Store, I'm going to return a JavaScript object.
So in order to automatically return it, I can use the parentheses and the curly braces here for my
object.
And what I'm going to put in this store is the exact same properties we have right here.
So I'm just going to copy this code directly.
And I'm going to put it in here.
So we're always going to return an object with state and dispatch properties.
However, what I'm going to do on the next line is I'm going to D structure the config object that a
test has the has the opportunity to pass in.
So the advantage of this approach is if some test wants to give me a configuration object with its own
state property or with its own dispatch property, it totally can.
And then we're going to overwrite these default values for those properties using the values from config.
So I am still going to allow each test to customize what a store looks like.
However, if a test does not care about those properties, then I'm going to fall back to a reasonable
default.
I'm going to have a state with a jobs property with an array of 15 and a dispatch method are set to
adjust function.
Right.
So in theory, a test could simply use create store with no arguments and use that store and it would
still work.
But if it wants to go a little bit more custom, it can.
Okay, so now let's use this create store function wherever we'd like.
So I'm going to scroll down and as we go through every test we have to think about, do we want that
test to specify what the state looks like?
Right.
Do we care about that?
So in this first test, you'll notice we have a store constant right here.
So we could totally replace this by simply doing const dollar sign store and invoking that create store
function that we just created above.
And this function will return this exact same object that we have right here.
And I can prove to you that if I save this and the we re runs, we're still going to get a passing test
suite.
So that that works exactly as expected.
And we can remove some of this redundancy from this test.
However, I still would like to ask the question does the in line declaration of a store, even if it
is the exact same as the one in our default factory up above, does it help a future reader understand
the context of the test?
So in this test, for example, we want to verify that we are only displaying ten jobs no matter how
many jobs we actually have in our store.
And so if a reader doesn't understand, they have to scroll back up to see that our store has 15 jobs
right here in order to verify that we are only displaying ten.
So I think it is actually beneficial to tell the reader that we have 15.
So I propose that instead of simply invoking Create Store, we invoke it with our sample configuration
object, right?
This is the argument that we're going to pass in right here where we can customize the properties we
care about.
And I'm going to provide it the exact same state I have right here, which is the exact same state I
have in my store anyway.
I understand the redundancy.
However, I feel that this better communicates that we have 15 jobs and better explains why the test
matters and why and how it's set up.
We have 15 jobs were only displaying ten.
Do I want to provide a custom value for dispatch?
In this scenario, I argue no, because this test doesn't care about what the dispatch property is.
However, it's still going to fall back to the default right here.
And that's going to be great because our mounted lifecycle hook, which needs a dispatch method, will
still work.
However, this test doesn't care about dispatch.
It just cares about how many jobs are in the store.
So what I'm trying to do here is have whatever information I care about still in line, even if it is
duplicated, even if I'm using my trade store factory function.
I want to allow future developers to not have to scroll up to understand what is going on.
Right.
In fact, if I want it to be even more specific, one thing we can do here is provide a variable for
this value right here, because otherwise this is what's called a magic number.
A future reader might be looking at this and saying, What does 15 represent and why does it matter?
I could, for example, simply add a constant here like number of jobs in store set to 15, and even
a test like this, I argue, is better off.
And the reason it's better is because now I'm kind of communicating a story, right?
We have a certain number of jobs in store in our view X Store, which is 15, but I'm only displaying
ten and the reader doesn't have to scroll up or scroll down.
They just know we're creating some kind of store.
But we are customizing part of a state, so hopefully and communicate exactly what the benefit is of
this approach.
What I'm trying to just explain what's exactly is going on.
Right.
Let me give you a comparison example that scroll down to the next test.
We can see when create params exclude page number, it displays page number one.
So this in my mind is a test that doesn't even care about how many jobs there are in the store.
It doesn't care about a dispatch method.
Right?
It just needs some store to exist because we need some amount of jobs in order to be able to slice that
array and in order to have a dispatch method.
But this test doesn't care about any of that.
So this is a perfect example where in this test we can totally simply call the create store factory
function and not care about its internals.
We're just going to assume that that helper factory is setting up whatever we need for create config
to work.
But this test still reads logically and communicates to the reader what matters.
We need a root object for dollar sign root.
We need a store object for dollar sign store.
We're creating it somewhere in a wrapper around our component.
We need the text page one.
Right.
And that to me still reads logically and communicates the intent.
We communicate that the story doesn't really affect the fact that we're going to see page one.
We're going to see page one no matter what.
Right.
Same principle for the test below if I scroll down.
Right here.
This one has to deal with when create params in our URL bar include page number.
We don't care about what the store looks like in this shape.
We don't care what the method looks like.
We just need some store.
So perfectly use case to simply invoke create store right here.
All right.
Same deal for the thing below.
When the user's on the first page of job results, it does not have link to the the previous page.
Perfect.
We don't care about here.
So right here, I'm gonna replace this.
Will they call it to create store?
Now the test down below is a little bit more tricky.
This is when the user is on the first page of job results.
Its show is linked to the next page.
This is only true if we have extra jobs to show, right?
So in this scenario, I do think it is beneficial to tell the reader that we have 15 jobs so that on
page one the reader can understand, oh, we still have five more jobs to show on page two.
That's why the next page exists.
So again, we can kind of debate whether it is necessary to repeat our state in every test.
I always air on the side of caution.
If I think it can help somebody, I tend to leave it in.
So right here I'm going to invoke create store and I'm going to pass in this object.
And again, do we care about dispatch when it comes to the store?
No.
So this is kind of misleading our fellow reader.
They shouldn't care about what dispatch does.
For the purposes of this test, they only care that we have at least 15 jobs to communicate, that we
will have a page, too.
So this is kind of how I would structure a test like this.
Obviously, this is not a science.
It is sort of up to each person to determine where they think they should include this data.
But I'm always there on the side of caution.
Finally, let's scroll down to our last described block when the users on the last page of job results.
In this scenario, I think that I do want to once again include the information about having 15 jobs.
Then I sort of communicate that I am on page two right here and the user can figure out that they have
15 jobs.
So we must be on the last page of results.
There is some amount of assumption to be made and maybe, like I said earlier, I can extract things
like this to a helper constant that communicates my intent.
But again, those are all optimizations that you can think about if you want to get, you know, the
best possible test what you can.
For now, I'm just going to remove this dispatch call.
I'm going to wrap this in a create store call.
And leave it like.
So I do want to communicate that I have 15 jobs.
So that page two represents the final page.
Same deal here when the users on the last page of job results, it shows links to previous page.
I do want to communicate that I'm on the last page of job results, so I do want to communicate that
I have 15 jobs.
So I'm going to wrap this in a create store function called and I'm going to remove my dispatch since
I don't care about that.
Save that.
And everything should pass perfect.
So again, technically, we can get every single test in this test we to pass by simply invoking create
store with no custom arguments because we're simply going to fall back to the default implementation
of having this logic right here.
And every test would still pass.
I'm going to leave it up to you as far as whether you want to do that, to have less lines of code.
But I would I will leave you with the final thought.
As I mentioned before, I don't always worry about having the smallest lines of code.
I don't think that's a good metric to measure by.
I worry about readability.
I worry whether my tests are communicating to myself and other developers what we're testing, how it's
being set up, which pieces matter, etc..
So I'm not always going to try to cut down to the smallest number of lines of code.
I'm going to try to write the best descriptive test that I can.
All right.
And that's why I prefer to repeat this logic right here in a test.
If I feel that a better communicates what is needed for that test to pass.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.